csi-proxy upgrade procedure updates (#1475)
openshift/enhancements: enhancements/windows-containers/csi-proxy.md

#### Cluster upgrades

##### Supported upgrades
WMCO will only support upgrading in-tree storage workloads to CSI driver storage workloads for Azure and vSphere.
New cluster installs on other platforms should be created with a minumum version of OCP 4.12, so they can immediately
use CSI driver storage, as there will not be a way to safely migrate in-tree volumes for those platforms. This is due
to a lack of Windows in-tree storage support leading up to 4.12 for those platforms.

##### Node upgrades
Cluster upgrades will have an impact on this feature when upgrading from a cluster version which uses in-tree

> storage, to one which uses CSI drivers. [When upgrading cluster versions, in-tree driver Volumes will automatically

Reviewer: Rather than saying `cluster versions` I suggest saying just `cluster`

be updated to use the appropriate CSI node drivers by the cluster](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-migration.html).
Volumes attached to Windows Nodes, will remain usable until the Node's kubelet is upgraded to the version matching the
new cluster version. This overlap period will allow for a smooth transition for each Node.

In order to properly make use of this, and ensure a clean transition with minimal workload interruption, both csi-proxy
and the CSI node drivers must be running on the Windows node before the upgrade commences. It will be up to the cluster
administrator to install the CSI drivers on the cluster. They should check that all deployed pods go into running, and
a CSINode is created for each Windows node. The CSINode should list the CSI driver as enabled.

> The requirement of csi-proxy is one that must be fufilled by WMCO. As this feature is targeted for WMCO 9.0.0,

Reviewer: `The csi-proxy requirement must be must be fulfilled by WMCO`.

csi-proxy must be backported to WMCO v7 and v8, to enable a smooth transition of volumes when upgrading from OCP
4.12 and 4.13. This specifically effects Azure, which loses in-tree storage functionality in 4.13, and vSphere which
loses it in 4.14.

What this means for the user, is that when they are upgrading a cluster from a version that uses in-tree to one that
uses CSI, they must first upgrade WMCO to a version which runs csi-proxy on Windows Nodes. Only then should they
upgrade the cluster.

In order to help ensure a smooth transition WMCO v8 and v9 will block each individual Node upgrade if:
1) A Node is being upgraded from in-tree storage to CSI driver storage

> 2) A volume is attached to the Node

Reviewer 2: It must be clarified if both or just one condition should be satisfied. 

Nit: Consider replacing the numbering list with bullets.

> The cluster administrator will need to apply the label `windowsmachineconfig.openshift.io/allow-upgrade=true` to each

Reviewer 2: it may be late for this, but what about `windowsmachineconfig.openshift.io/upgradeable=true` for the label?

Author: I'd prefer to keep it as `allow-upgrade` as it emphasizes more that the user is the one allowing the upgrade to occur, instead of the Node meeting all possible conditions to be upgraded.

> blocked Node, in order to unblock the upgrade. This way they can unblock an upgrade, and ensure that the workload is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
blocked Node, in order to allow the upgrade. This way, they can unblock an upgrade, and ensure that the workload is
```

able to go back into running, using the migrated storage volume. If the workload does not go back into running, the

> cluster admin must debug any issues with the CSI drivers, and correct them, before allowing upgrades on any other

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cluster administrator must debug any issues with the CSI drivers, and correct them, before allowing upgrades on any other
```

for consistency

> cluster admin must debug any issues with the CSI drivers, and correct them, before allowing upgrades on any other

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cluster admin must triage any issues with the CSI drivers and correct them before allowing upgrades on any other
```

> Nodes. This is meant to minimize any workload interruption on upgrade.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Nodes. The latter helps to minimize workload interruption on the upgrade.
```

##### Possible upgrade path scenarios

###### v7 -> v8

Scenario A:

> v7 with csi-proxy backport -> v8 with csi-proxy backport

Reviewer 2: > v7 with csi-proxy backport

Instead of `backport` I recommend sticking to the wording used above: 

```
v7 with csi-proxy running as a Windows service
```

Scenario B:

v7 without csi-proxy backport -> v8 with csi-proxy backport

csi-proxy will not be running on each Node. WMCO 8 will be installed on the cluster, and the individual Node upgrades
will be blocked for Azure, which must have the storage volumes migrated. The user will be able to deploy the CSI
drivers, but will not be able to confirm the CSI Windows daemonset pods go into running until a Node has been upgraded.
The user should upgrade a Node, confirm the csi-driver Windows daemonset pod for the node goes into running, and then
confirm that the workload goes into running.

Scenario C:

v7 with csi-proxy backport -> v8 without csi-proxy backport

csi-proxy will initally be running on each Node. WMCO 8 will be installed on the cluster, and the individual Node
upgrades will not be blocked, and csi-proxy will stop running on each Node.
For vSphere clusters, there is no impact as in-tree storage will still be used.
For Azure and all other platforms, neither in-tree volumes nor CSI volumes will be usable. Storage workloads will be
disrupted until WMCO and all Windows Nodes are upgraded to a version of v8 with the csi-proxy backport.

> Scenario C needs to be avoided. For this reason WMCO v8 with csi-proxy backport should be released before WMCO v7

Reviewer: Does this imply that the release ordering is v9, v8 and v7? I thought we decided that it should be the other way around?

Author: Yes I have come to the conclusion that in general while releasing  v7 first and then v8 would be smoother in the general case, in order to avoid Scenario C, which can cause major issues we should release v8 first. I did not find anything that would cause us to care about the v9 release timing, please let me know if you think I'm missing something there.

Reviewer: What if a customer is on v8 with CSI proxy and then upgrades to v9 where CSI proxy is not available?

Author: v9 will only be released with csi-proxy, we haven't released a version without it, unlike v7 and v8.

Reviewer: Good point. What about upgrading from v8 version without csi-proxy to v9 which has csi-proxy?

Reviewer 2: That is Scenario B (Same as Scenario E)

Reviewer: OK, what is tripping me up is which version is going to block the upgrades. @sebsoto I suggest explicitly calling that out in the scenarios.

Author: Reworded things to be explicit about that

#### Cluster upgrades

##### Supported upgrades
WMCO will only support upgrading in-tree storage workloads to CSI driver storage workloads for Azure and vSphere.
New cluster installs on other platforms must be created with a minumum version of OCP 4.12, so they can immediately
use CSI driver storage, as there will not be a way to safely migrate in-tree volumes for those platforms. This is due
to a lack of Windows in-tree storage support leading up to 4.12 for those platforms.

##### Node upgrades
Cluster upgrades will have an impact on this feature when upgrading from a cluster version which uses in-tree

> storage, to one which uses CSI drivers. [When upgrading the cluster, in-tree driver Volumes will automatically

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
storage, to one which uses CSI drivers. [When upgrading the cluster, volumes using in-tree drivers will automatically
```

uses CSI storage drivers, they must first upgrade WMCO to a version which runs csi-proxy as a service on Windows Nodes.
Only then should they upgrade the cluster.

In order to help ensure a smooth transition, WMCO v8 and v9 will block each individual Node upgrade if both these
conditions are met:
* A Node is being upgraded from in-tree storage to CSI driver storage
* A volume is attached to the Node

The cluster administrator will need to apply the label `windowsmachineconfig.openshift.io/allow-upgrade=true` to each
blocked Node, in order to allow the upgrade. This way, they can unblock an upgrade, and ensure that the workload is
able to go back into running, using the migrated storage volume. If the workload does not go back into running, the
cluster administrator must triage any issues with the CSI drivers, correcting them before allowing upgrades on any
other Nodes. This process is meant to minimize any workload interruption on upgrade.

##### Possible upgrade path scenarios

###### v7 -> v8

Scenario A:

v7 with csi-proxy running on Windows Nodes -> v8 with csi-proxy running on Windows Nodes

> 

Reviewer: Nit: extra line

csi-proxy will be running on each Node. WMCO v8 will be installed on the cluster, and the individual Node upgrades will
be blocked by WMCO v8 on Azure, in cases where in-tree storage volumes must be migrated. The user will be able to deploy
the CSI drivers and confirm they go into running. The user will be able to follow the ideal upgrade procedure.

Scenario B:

v7 without csi-proxy running on Windows Nodes -> v8 with csi-proxy running on Windows Nodes

csi-proxy will not be running on each Node. WMCO 8 will be installed on the cluster, and the individual Node upgrades
will be blocked by WMCO v8 on Azure, in cases where in-tree storage volumes must be migrated. The user will be able to
deploy the CSI drivers, but will not be able to confirm the CSI Windows daemonset pods go into running until a Node has
been upgraded. The user should upgrade a Node, confirm the csi-driver Windows daemonset pod for the node goes into
running, and then confirm that the workload goes into running.

Scenario C:

> v7 with csi-proxy running on Windows Nodes -> v8 without running on Windows Nodes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
v7 with csi-proxy running on Windows Nodes -> v8 without csi-proxy running on Windows Nodes
```
